Add licensing overview (#818)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/licensing.md

---
slug: licensing
append_help_link: true
description: >-
  Learn about licenses of r2c products.
---

# Licensing

This document provides an overview of the licenses of important products created by r2c. See the list of the products and their licenses below:

<dl>
  <dt>Semgrep CLI</dt>

>     <dd>Semgrep CLI is an open source project licensed under <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>. Proprietary part of Semgrep is DeepSemgrep, for more information see <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>

Author: ```suggestion
    <dd>Semgrep CLI is an open source project licensed under <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>. A proprietary extension of Semgrep CLI is DeepSemgrep, for more information see <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
```

>     <dd>Semgrep CLI is an open source project licensed under <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>. The proprietary extension of Semgrep CLI is DeepSemgrep, for more information see <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>

Author: ```suggestion
    <dd>Semgrep CLI is an open source project licensed under <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>. The proprietary extension of Semgrep CLI is DeepSemgrep, see also <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
```

  <dt>Semgrep Supply Chain</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep App</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd> 
  <dt>Semgrep Registry</dt>
    <dd>
    <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> is a collection of rules and rulesets:
    <ul>
    <li>Rules in the <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules">semgrep-rules</a> repository are licensed LGPL 2.1 under Common Clause v1.0. Review the <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules/blob/develop/LICENSE#L10">semgrep-rules license</a>.</li>
    <li>Rules from third-party repositories in the <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> inherit the licenses of their source repositories. These licenses are displayed within the rule definition in the editor. For example: <a href="https://semgrep.dev/p/trailofbits">Rules written by Trail of Bits</a> security experts licensed under CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0.</li>
    <li>Premium rules are proprietary.</li>
    </ul>
    </dd>
</dl>

:::info

> In the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) the license of each rule is displayed under the embedded rule preview. See the screenshot below with the license highlighted in red:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) the license of each rule is displayed under the embedded rule preview. See the following screenshot with the license highlighted in red:
```

---
slug: licensing
append_help_link: true
description: >-
  Learn about licenses of r2c products.
---

# Licensing

This document provides an overview of the licenses of important products created by r2c. See the list of the products and their licenses below:

<dl>
  <dt>Semgrep CLI</dt>

>     <dd>This project is open-sourced. Licensed under <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>.</dd>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <dd>This project is open source and licensed under <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>.</dd>
```

  <dt>Semgrep Supply Chain</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep App</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>

>   <dt>DeepSemgrep</dt>

Reviewer 2: Since DeepSemgrep is an extension to the Semgrep engine, perhaps nest under that? As indented here I think it could be interpreted as a stand-alone product.

Author: I will do that, thank you!

Author: Now added as:

```html
  <dt>Semgrep CLI</dt>
    <dd>Semgrep CLI is an open source project licensed under <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>. Proprietary part of Semgrep is DeepSemgrep, for more information see <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
```

    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep Registry</dt>
    <dd>

>     <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> is a collection of rules from various repositories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> is a collection of rules and rulesets:
```

    <ul>

>     <li>Rules in the <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules">semgrep-rules</a> repository are licensed under Common Clause v1.0 or LGPL 2.1. Review <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules/blob/develop/LICENSE#L10">semgrep-rules license</a>.</li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <li>Rules in the <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules">semgrep-rules</a> repository are licensed LGPL 2.1 under Common Clause v1.0. Review the <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules/blob/develop/LICENSE#L10">semgrep-rules license</a>.</li>
```

>     <li>Rules from third-party repositories in <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> inherit the licenses of their source repositories. These licenses are displayed within the rule definition in the editor, for example, MIT license for dgryski’s rules.</li>

Reviewer 2: How about linking to [this ruleset from Trail of Bits](https://semgrep.dev/p/trailofbits)?

Author: @pabloest great idea!

Author: Added!

>     <li>Rules from third-party repositories in <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> inherit the licenses of their source repositories. These licenses are displayed within the rule definition in the editor, for example, MIT license for dgryski’s rules.</li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <li>Rules from third-party repositories in the <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> inherit the licenses of their source repositories. These licenses are displayed within the rule definition in the editor, for example, MIT license for dgryski’s rules.</li>
```

>     <li>Premium or higher rules are proprietary.</li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <li>Premium or higher rules are proprietary.</li>
```

I’m not sure what is meant by “or higher” in this context.

Author: Of course, my mistake... a remnant of the previous iteration (team tier or higher). Thank you @pabloest!
```suggestion
    <li>Premium or higher rules are proprietary.</li>
```

    </ul>
    </dd>
</dl>

:::info

> In [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) the license of each rule is displayed under the embedded rule preview. See the screenshot below with the license highlighted in red:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) the license of each rule is displayed under the embedded rule preview. See the screenshot below with the license highlighted in red:
```
